# MVC - The Basics

Design patterns are a great way to organize your code so someone jumping into your code base can immediately understand the structure and flow of data in your project. There are a few common patterns that have been used in iOS development for a long time, but none more popular than MVC.

## MVC

MVC is an acryonym:

* Model - The data that is stored.
* View - The user interface elements that users interact with.
* Controller - The middleman that connects your view and model and handles all the other logic inbetween.

### Pros

MVC is pretty popular not only because Apple uses it in all of their examples, but because it is extremely simple. The seperation of responsibilities is very easy to understand and the data flow in a program is also easy to grasp for any new user.

### Cons

While MVC is not very complex, it has a lot of issues with being evenly distributed code wise. Often times your Model layer will be extremely small, your views being big but still not large, and your controller handling every other piece of code under the sun in your app. This leads to the nickname "Massive View Controller". Other issues are that view controllers become very hard to test due to the business logic being tightly coupled to the view components.

### Small Solutions

Since the main issue of MVC revolves around the controller getting too large, there are multiple different things you can do with an iOS app to try to move code outside of the view controller file:

 1. **Utilize child view controllers.** When first learning app development, most teachers tend to push the "one screen of content equals one view controller" paradigm. While it is easy to learn this way, you can easily take your app to a better level of organization by utilizing child view controllers. You can divide the content of your view controller up into smaller components, which will naturally divide your code up into seperate files of functionality. While this does not fundimentally change the "Massive View Controller" problem, it does make your Controller a bit more clean to work with.

 2. **Delegation.** Often times when you are using UIKit components, you are required to have your view controller constrain to a few different protocols such as UITableViewDelegate for table views. This can get messy quickly when you are dealing with a large view controller with a lot of different components that expect delegate methods to be implemented. One solution: create a seperate file that will contain a class that constrains itself to the delegate you want to use in your main view controller. This will move all delegation implementation code out to your new file and only require you to instantiate and set the delegate on your original view controller.

 3. **Move user interface code outside of viewDidLoad.** Most people load up their viewDidLoad method with a ton of user interface constraints to set up a view before it is shown to the user. A better way: utilize a UIView subclass and constrain the layout within that subclass. You then can set the view of your view controller to the new UIView subclass in the loadView method.

## Summary

MVC is a very simple, widely adopted pattern that can be used to  give an app a structure that most will understand. However, there are various disadvantages that will occur as your app starts to grow. As a result, it is important to consider where in your app you can seperate code out to achieve a cleaner and easier to understand codebase before it turns into a massive view controller.
