
# MVVM

Yesterday I learned about MVC, which has a couple of different issues. Microsoft felt they could do MVC a little better, so they made a version they call "MVVM". MVVM can be broken down by layers just like MVC:

* Model - Data being stored.
* View - The user interface elements that users interact with.
* View Model - Data binding between the model and view layers.

View Models bring a new concept to the table called data binding. Data binding is the idea that data represented on the view layer is represented in the model layer and kept in sync in realtime through a binding you create in code.

~~~~
(?) Why is this a good thing? You don't have to worry about the state of your view compared to the model as much, but you're still adding a lot of boilerplate binding code to do so.
~~~~

## Pros

1. **Testability.** - Because the view and model communicate via the view model, you can create test view models to push into your app and test various states. You can also call directly into your view model and modify.

2. **Less code in VCs.** MVC suffers from issues since there a large amount of code gets stuffed into the controller layer. MVVM helps out by moving all of your code from the view controller into the view model.

3. **MVVM separates responsibilities well and has clear data flow.** Similar to MVC, MVVM is good about splitting up responsibilities of each layer in a clear to understand way while also keeping the flow of data easy to understand too.

## Cons

1. **Bindings.** While these are an important aspect that make the architecture tick, it is something extra you need to implement.

2. **Model layer is still small.** The model layer is still limited to defining out whatever data you are using in the app, which will be significantly smaller than the other layers.

3. **Complex for small projects.** Even though it might make a project organized, it is a lot of heavy lifting for a small project. Implementing bindings for everything is at the end of a day a heavier lift compared to organizing your code into different files like you do with MVC.

## Summary

MVVM is an alternative to MVC that utilizes data binding and a view model layer to wrap around the model. While this is an interesting concept, I do think bindings are a bit hard to understand at first and am having a hard time understanding why it is considered a step up from MVC. Maybe it is because I don't do a lot of testing, which I probably should. Either way, I definately want to learn more.
