## Figured out what was wrong
* I had a hunch something was a little wrong with my algorithm. It is hard to test a GA on basic functions since the GA looks for the fittest individuals. If there is no upper bound, the search is useless. I decided to invert some functions so that the max would land `f(x,y) = 0`. The problem ended up being that when I did this, I made all fitness values negative. It wasn't really an issue at first until I tried a different selection algorithm shown here:

```
def roulette_wheel_selection(population: Population, num_individuals: int) -> List[Individual]:
    selection = []
    wheel = np.sum(individual.fitness for individual in population.individuals)
    for _ in range(num_individuals):
        pick = np.random.uniform(0, wheel)
        current = 0
        for individual in population.individuals:
            current += individual.fitness
            if current > pick:
                selection.append(individual)
                break

    return selection
```

* This creates a roulette wheel where each slice of the wheel is the slice of an individuals fitness. When selecting individuals for whatever reason, this would allow for more fit individuals to be more likely to get selected. The issue came quickly with `if current > pick`. Since I was using negative fitness values, `pick` was always negative, so `current` was selecting whichever individual was first in the list. Since the individuals are unordered it is not guaranteed to select the most fit individual.
* I tried switching `if current > pick` to `if current < pick`, however this resulted in numpy throwing an `OverflowError: Range exceeds valid bounds`. Need to look into why this is happening.
* Need to figure out how to test GA's with functions where fitness values can be negative.