# Learning #
* Today there was not learning in the sense of reading a book. I have had suspicions whether or not my algorithm is being implemented properly. I asked a question on StackOverflow to try to clear it up [here](https://stackoverflow.com/questions/57362280/which-individuals-should-crossover-and-or-mutate-in-a-genetic-algorithm). Still no response. The main issue is I don't know if I'm using exploitation and exploration properly.
* Exploration is the act of the algorithm exploring. Generally you want more exploration earlier on so that the algorithm can find different areas. Exploration can help to avoid local minima/maxima. By having different portions of the algorithm start in different areas, you are better able to explore the full range of the domain. This is especially important with genetic algorithms because you don't want one chromosome/allele to dominate and take over. Crossover and mutation can help with this. Crossover helps by allowing a gene to be swapped between two parents, possibly helping, but also exploring different ranges of values. Mutation helps by mutating a gene entirely. There are many different types of mutations and crossovers that can occur and picking the right one is one of the things I'm having an issue with.
* Exploitation is diving deeper into an area. For my example that I'm testing on I'm trying to have it find the global maxima at `f(0,0)`. Early exploration can help generalize the area, but later stages of exploitation will help hone in on `(0,0)`.
* I believe my main issue is in the exploitation (mutation) area. I think the exploration early on is working pretty well. Sometimes I may get stuck in a local optima, but I can tweak that. The exploitation is really where the issue seems to be present. The maximum fitness that my fitness function can have is 0. I'm made sure that all other fitness values will be negative. This helps with graphing and visualizing it (at least for me). The best individual seems to get pretty near 0 most of the time, i.e. `-10e-15`. When looking at the average fitness, however, it seems to converge around `-10e-3`, which is not great. 
* What I think needs to be done is an adaptive crossover. What I mean by this is having individuals crossover freely when they are in early generations, but as the generations progress, have the more fit individuals have a higher chance of mating. Since I can model this using the roulette wheel crossover, each individual still has a chance to crossover, thus preserving exploration if needed.
## What needs to be done next
* Since I believe crossover is the problem I am creating a program to model the evolution of the GA through a short video. This will help me see where the population goes and around what generation it converges. The program will also help me in the future to be able to tweak GA's to see how they handle similar problems. 