# Delegation

Delegation is a design pattern that sometimes doesn't even feel like a design pattern because of how baked into the Apple ecosystem the conept is. The basic idea: an object that is created for the purpose of responding to events of another object. Coming from a C background, the idea of delegation was really strange to me, but it is pretty powerful and allows for some really cool things to be built. One of the most popular UIKit components that uses delegates a ton is the UITableView.

UITableView is strictly related to the presentation of data, which means you can customize a ton of behavior by creating an object to become a delegate for the table view. That looks a lot like this:

````<swift>
/// Create a MyTableView that inherits from UITableView and constrains itself to the UITableViewDataSource and UITableViewDelegate protocol

class MyTableView: UITableView, UITableViewDataSource, UITableViewDelegate {

    self.tableView.delegate = self // Set yourself as the delegate object for the table view delegate

    self.tableView.dataSource = self // Set yourself as the delegate for the data source delegate.
}
````

In the above example, we "create" the object self to handle the events that the UITableView wants us to handle. This is a very common behavior in iOS programming, but can be a source of a lot of extra code and can make your code messy by having every bit of funcationality in one view controller (Massive View Controller). As a result, it is recommeded you make custom objects to handle delegation for you so you can organize code better.

````<swift>
class MyTableViewDataSource: UITableViewDataSource {
    /// Implement required and optional delegate methods
}

class MyTableView: UITableView, UITableViewDataSource, UITableViewDelegate {

    let dataSourceDelegate = MyTableViewDataSource()

    self.tableView.dataSource = dataSourceDelegate
}
````

The above example is all in one file, but you can easily push the custom delegate object out to a different swift file and reduce the amount of code in one place.
